1. The asynchronous nature is a pain point because js runs multiple operations together and debugging the nested callbacks that we just reviewed earlier is undoubtely going to be challenging. Loose typing is also a pain point because it can cause errors that we don't understand and will definetly have a hard time debugging since we don't have to even define variables. Lastly, js is for browsers but there are just so many different tools with said different browsers, which complicates figuring out bugs once again along with maybe having to learn new tools just to solve the problem. 
2. It is easier to make less code since it is a bit more intuitive here for new programmers like myself. Also, making js more asynchronous helps make sure the whole site doesn't crash when you try to debug issues or even just fetching data like we were doing earlier.
3. compiled language is just languages that turn our code into something that the machine can understand whereas the interpreted language is executed directly from our code line by line, which is exactly what Javascript does line by line as well.
4. learning vanilla first helps else establish the fundamentals. Unlike, html where weak code can still pass, vanilla js is vastly more important in my opinion since this is how we make our websites and apps be interactive with users. Learning frameworks first might make us more reliant on them in the future and we might not always have them availabe for us different environments.
5. Going over js fundamentals is needed for us to be able to write responsive code and make debugging easier for us because bugs will come since I am new to this. 